# About OCMS_Toolkit
OCMS_Toolkit is a repository of scripts useful for bioinformatics work at OCMS.

# Requirements
python 3.8

# Install
OCMS_Toolkit can be installed by running the following:
```
git clone https://github.com/OxfordCMS/OCMS_Toolkit
cd OCMS_Toolkit
python setup.py install
```
This will place relevant modules in your path and enable the use of a command line interface.

# OCMS_Toolkit
## scripts
### new_project
Use this script to initiate a new project on BMRC. `new_project` sets up the relevant directories and symlinks on BMRC in group and/or user directories that conforms to how OCMS works on the BMRC.

```
ocms_toolkit new_project --project_name=NEW_PROJECT --level=both
```

`-p` or `--project_name` is the new project name
`-l` or `--level` is the level at which new projects should be made. Takes `group`, `user`, or `both`. `--level=group` creates the directories in `projects` and `archive`. `l-level=user` creates directories in `devel` and `work`. `--level=both` makes all directories. You may want to set `--level=user` if the project has already been created in `project` and `archive` and you just need the directories in your own user space.

### rename_and_link
User this script to sym link files and rename the sym links based ona mapping file. This is helpful for symlinking files that have very long/cumbersome barcodes produced by the sequencer. This is a stripped back version of combine_lanes.py

This script takes five parameters.
`-i` or `--indir` Specifying input directory containing files to be symlinked.
`-s` or `--suffix` specifies the file extension of files to be symlinked (i.e. `.fastq.1.gz`, `.fastq.gz` etc.)
`-o` or `--outdir` Output directory is the location where symlinks will be created.
`-m` or `--mapping` specifies the file that maps the original barcodes and the new IDs to be used when renaming
`-l` or `--log` specifies name of logfile produced. default=read.map
```
    ocms rename_and_link --indir=<INDIR> --suffix=<SUFFIX> --outdir=<OUTDIR> --mapping<ID-MAPPING>
    ocms rename_and_link -i raw -s .fastq.1.gz -o renamed -m id_mapping.tsv -l read1.map
    raw/
	/raw/long_barcode1.fastq.1.gz
	/raw/long_barcode2.fastq.1.gz
    renamed/
	/renamed/clean_id1.fastq.1.gz
	/renamed/clean_id2.fastq.1.gz

    mapping.tsv
    long_barcode1    clean_id1
    long_barcode2    clean_id2
```

## pipelines
### pipeline_subsample.py
This pipeline uses seqtk to randomly subsample fastq files (with seed). pipeline takes in all fastq.*gz in input.dir and subsamples to a specified read depth.

#### Configuration
`ocms_toolkit subsample_fastq config`

The pipeline yml only has one parameter `depth` which refers to the number of sequences subsampled from each fastq file.

#### Requirements
`module load seqtk/1.4-GCC-12.2.0`

#### Usage
`ocms_toolkit subsample make full -p 10 -v 6`

### pipeline_sra.py
This pipeline parses the download script generated by ENA Browser, parallellizes the download (without sending to the cluster), and performs MD5 check sums on the downloads.

Downloaded files are in their respective subdirectories based on the sample `SRR` code. The pipeline creates a sentinel file is generated after downloading each file, and a log file tracking the files that have been downloaded.

Finally, the pipeline performs MD5 check sums on all downloaded files to verify download integrity. 

#### Configuration
`ocms_toolkit sra config`

The pipeline yml only has one parameter `ena_script` which is the download script generated by ENA browser when you `download all` in their browser portal. This script needs to be readable as it will be parsed by the pipeline.

#### Requirements
No modules required. Internet access required.

#### Usage
`ocms_toolkit sra make full -p 50 -v 6`

#### Tasks
`enaDownload` parses the ena download script and generates a job for each file.
`generateMD5` generates MD5 files on each downloaded file to check for download integrity. MD5 files put within `check_sums` subdirectory.
`verifyMD5` uses MD5 to check all the MD5 files from `generateMD5`

After the check sums, the pipeline will write any files that failed check sums to `check_sums/report.txt`
